docs/specifications/literal_values.md, before:

# Filament Literal Values and Data Types Specification

## 1. Overview

Filament supports two primary data types for attribute values: string literals and float literals. This specification documents the syntax, usage, and behavior of these literal value types within the Filament language.

## 2. String Literals

String literals in Filament are enclosed in double quotes and support Rust-style escape sequences for enhanced text representation.

### 2.1 Basic String Syntax

```filament
"hello world"           // Basic string
"simple text"           // Alphanumeric content
""                      // Empty string
"with spaces and 123"   // Mixed content
```

### 2.2 Escape Sequences

Filament supports the following escape sequences within string literals:

#### Standard Escape Sequences
- `\"` - Double quote
- `\\` - Backslash
- `\/` - Forward slash
- `\n` - Newline
- `\r` - Carriage return
- `\t` - Tab
- `\b` - Backspace
- `\f` - Form feed
- `\0` - Null character

#### Examples
```filament
"quote: \"Hello World\""        // Contains quotes
"path\\to\\file"                // Windows path
"line 1\nline 2"               // Multi-line text
"tab\tdelimited\tdata"         // Tab-separated
```

### 2.3 Unicode Escape Sequences

Unicode characters can be included using the `\u{...}` syntax with 1-6 hexadecimal digits:

```filament
"emoji: \u{1F602}"             // 😂 (Face with Tears of Joy)
"symbol: \u{00AC}"             // ¬ (Not Sign)
"arrow: \u{2192}"              // → (Rightwards Arrow)
"math: \u{221E}"               // ∞ (Infinity)
```

#### Unicode Requirements
- Must use exactly 1-6 hexadecimal digits
- Must represent a valid Unicode code point
- Surrogate range (0xD800-0xDFFF) is not allowed
- Maximum value is 0x10FFFF

### 2.4 Escaped Whitespace

Whitespace immediately following a backslash at the end of a line is consumed, allowing for multi-line string formatting:

```filament
"This is a long string that spans \
 multiple lines but appears as one"
// Results in: "This is a long string that spans multiple lines but appears as one"
```

### 2.5 String Usage in Filament

String literals are used for:
- **Color values**: `"red"`, `"#ff0000"`, `"rgb(255,0,0)"`
- **Font families**: `"Arial"`, `"Helvetica"`, `"Courier New"`
- **Style values**: `"solid"`, `"dashed"`, `"dotted"`, `"5,3"` (custom dash patterns)
- **Routing styles**: `"straight"`, `"curved"`, `"orthogonal"`
- **Line cap/join values**: `"butt"`, `"round"`, `"square"`, `"miter"`, `"bevel"`
- **Display names and labels**: Component and relation labels
- **Background colors**: Diagram and component background colors
- **Note content**: Text content for annotations (see [Note Syntax Specification](note_syntax.md))
- **Note alignment**: `"left"`, `"right"`, `"top"`, `"bottom"`, `"over"`

## 3. Float Literals

Float literals represent numeric values as 32-bit floating-point numbers (f32) and support multiple representation formats.

### 3.1 Standard Decimal Format

Basic decimal notation with explicit decimal point, including whole numbers:

```filament
2.5         // Standard decimal
10.0        // Explicit decimal point
0.75        // Leading zero
123.456     // Multiple decimal places
```

### 3.2 Whole Numbers

Whole numbers without decimal points are fully supported and treated as float literals:

```filament
1           // Equivalent to 1.0
17          // Equivalent to 17.0
42          // Equivalent to 42.0
1000        // Equivalent to 1000.0
```

Whole numbers provide a clean, readable syntax for integer-valued numeric attributes while maintaining the underlying float type system.

### 3.3 Abbreviated Decimal Formats

#### Leading Decimal Point
When the integer part is zero, it can be omitted:

```filament
.5          // Equivalent to 0.5
.25         // Equivalent to 0.25
.125        // Equivalent to 0.125
.001        // Equivalent to 0.001
```

#### Trailing Decimal Point
When the fractional part is zero, it can be omitted but the decimal point is required:

```filament
5.          // Equivalent to 5.0
100.        // Equivalent to 100.0
42.         // Equivalent to 42.0
```

### 3.4 Scientific Notation

Scientific notation uses `e` or `E` followed by an optional sign and exponent:

```filament
1e5         // 100000.0 (1 × 10⁵)
2.5e-3      // 0.0025 (2.5 × 10⁻³)
1.23e+4     // 12300.0 (1.23 × 10⁴)
1E5         // 100000.0 (uppercase E)
2.5E-3      // 0.0025 (uppercase E)
6.022e23    // Avogadro's number
```

#### Scientific Notation Rules
- Exponent can be positive or negative
- The `+` sign in the exponent is optional
- Both `e` and `E` are accepted
- The mantissa (number before e/E) can use any decimal format

### 3.4 Precision and Range

Float literals are stored as IEEE 754 single-precision floating-point numbers:
- **Precision**: Approximately 7 decimal digits
- **Range**: Approximately ±3.4 × 10³⁸
- **Smallest positive**: Approximately 1.2 × 10⁻³⁸

### 3.5 Float Usage in Filament

Float literals are used for:
- **Stroke dimensions**: `stroke=[width=2.5]`
- **Shape dimensions**: `rounded=10`
- **Text sizing**: `text=[font_size=16, padding=8.0]`
- **Positioning**: Coordinate and measurement values

#### Examples by Attribute Type
```filament
// Shape attributes
component: Rectangle [
    stroke=[width=2.5],     // Stroke width
    rounded=10,             // Corner radius (whole number)
];

// Text attributes
label: Rectangle [
    text=[font_size=16, padding=8.5]  // Nested text attributes
];

// Stroke attributes
component: Rectangle [
    stroke=[color="blue", width=2.0, style="dashed"]  // Nested stroke attributes
];

// Relation attributes
source -> [stroke=[width=2]] target;  // Relation stroke width (whole number)
```





## 4. Text Attribute Usage and Examples

Text attributes control text appearance. Use nested syntax: `text=[attribute=value, ...]`

Text attributes are used in components, relations, and notes. For note-specific usage, see [Note Syntax Specification](note_syntax.md).

**Examples:**

```filament
// Basic styling
type Styled = Rectangle [text=[font_size=16, color="white"]];

// With font family
type Custom = Rectangle [text=[font_family="Arial", font_size=14, color="black"]];

// With background and padding
type Highlighted = Rectangle [text=[color="red", background_color="yellow", padding=5.0]];

// Color formats: named, hex, RGB, RGBA
type ColorExamples = Rectangle [text=[color="rgba(255, 0, 0, 0.5)"]];

// Full configuration
type Full = Rectangle [
    text=[font_size=18, font_family="Helvetica", color="navy", background_color="lightblue", padding=8.0]
];

// In relations
source -> [text=[color="red", font_size=14]] target: "Label";
```

## 5. Stroke Attribute Usage and Examples

Stroke attributes control borders, lines, and outlines. Use nested syntax: `stroke=[attribute=value, ...]`

Stroke attributes are used in shapes, relations, fragments, and notes. For note-specific usage, see [Note Syntax Specification](note_syntax.md).

**Basic Styles:**

```filament
// Solid, dashed, dotted
type Solid = Rectangle [stroke=[color="navy", width=2.0, style="solid"]];
type Dashed = Rectangle [stroke=[color="red", width=1.5, style="dashed"]];
type Dotted = Rectangle [stroke=[color="black", width=1.0, style="dotted"]];
```

**Custom Dash Patterns:**

```filament
// Pattern: "dash,gap" or "dash,gap,dash,gap" (repeating)
type Pattern1 = Rectangle [stroke=[color="purple", width=2.0, style="5,3"]];
type Pattern2 = Rectangle [stroke=[color="green", style="10,5,2,5", line_cap="round"]];
```

**Arrows and Relations:**

```filament
type RedArrow = Arrow [stroke=[color="red", width=2.0]];
type DashedArrow = Arrow [stroke=[style="dashed", color="blue"]];

source -> [stroke=[color="orange", width=3.0]] target;
source -> [stroke=[color="purple", style="dashed"], style="curved"] target;
```

**Fragments:**

```filament
fragment alt "Condition" {
    [border_stroke=[color="blue", width=2.0], separator_stroke=[color="gray", style="dashed"]]
};
```

**Line Caps and Joins:**

```filament
// Caps: "butt" (default), "round", "square"
type RoundCap = Rectangle [stroke=[width=3.0, line_cap="round"]];

// Joins: "miter" (default), "round", "bevel"
type RoundJoin = Rectangle [stroke=[width=2.0, line_join="round"]];
```

**Full Configuration:**

```filament
type Complete = Rectangle [
    stroke=[color="darkblue", width=2.5, style="8,3,2,3", line_cap="round", line_join="round"]
];
```

**Sequence Diagrams (Lifelines):**

```filament
diagram sequence [
    lifeline=[color="black", width=1.0, style="dashed"]
];
```

## 6. Type Safety and Usage Rules

Filament enforces strict type safety for attribute values to prevent runtime errors and improve performance.

### 6.1 Strict Typing Rules

- **Numeric attributes** only accept float literals
- **Text attributes** only accept string literals
- **No automatic conversion** between string and numeric values
- **Compile-time validation** ensures type correctness

### 6.2 Correct Usage Examples

```filament
// ✅ Correct: String for colors, floats for dimensions
component: Rectangle [
    fill_color="blue",      // String literal
    stroke=[width=2.5],     // Nested stroke attributes
    rounded=10,             // Float literal
    text=[font_family="Arial", color="white"]  // Nested text attributes with color
];

// ✅ Correct: Mixed attribute types
type Database = Rectangle [
    fill_color="lightblue", // String
    rounded=10,             // Float
    stroke=[width=2],       // Nested stroke attributes
    text=[color="darkblue", font_size=14]  // Text with color
];

// ✅ Correct: Text colors with various formats
type ColorfulText = Rectangle [
    fill_color="white",
    text=[
        color="red",                    // Named color
        font_size=16,                   // Float
        background_color="#ffff00",     // Hex color
        padding=5.0                     // Float
    ]
];

// ✅ Correct: Semi-transparent text color
type TransparentText = Rectangle [
    fill_color="black",
    text=[color="rgba(255, 255, 255, 0.7)", font_size=18]  // Alpha transparency
];
```

### 6.3 Incorrect Usage Examples

```filament
// ❌ Incorrect: Using string for numeric stroke width
component: Rectangle [
    stroke=[width="2.5"]    // Error: Expected float, found string
];

// ❌ Incorrect: Using float for string attribute
component: Rectangle [
    fill_color=255.0        // Error: Expected string, found float
];

// ❌ Incorrect: Using float for text color
component: Rectangle [
    text=[color=255.0]      // Error: Expected string, found float
];

// ❌ Incorrect: Using numeric value for text color
component: Rectangle [
    text=[color=16777215]   // Error: Expected string, found float
];
```

### 6.4 Attribute Type Reference

**General Attributes:**

| Attribute | Type | Example |
|-----------|------|---------|
| `fill_color` | String | `"red"`, `"#ff0000"` |
| `rounded` | Float | `10.0`, `5.`, `10` |
| `style` | String | `"straight"`, `"curved"`, `"orthogonal"` |
| `stroke` | Stroke Attributes | See Stroke table below |
| `border_stroke` | Stroke Attributes | See Stroke table below (fragments only) |
| `separator_stroke` | Stroke Attributes | See Stroke table below (fragments only) |
| `text` | Text Attributes | See Text table below |
| `background_color` | String | `"white"`, `"#ffffff"` (notes, see [Note Syntax](note_syntax.md)) |

**Stroke Attributes** (used in `stroke`, `border_stroke`, `separator_stroke`):

| Attribute | Type | Example |
|-----------|------|---------|
| `color` | String | `"red"`, `"#ff0000"` |
| `width` | Float | `2.0`, `1.5`, `2` |
| `style` | String | `"solid"`, `"dashed"`, `"dotted"`, `"5,3"` |
| `line_cap` | String | `"butt"`, `"round"`, `"square"` |
| `line_join` | String | `"miter"`, `"round"`, `"bevel"` |

**Text Attributes** (used in `text`):

| Attribute | Type | Example |
|-----------|------|---------|
| `font_size` | Float | `16`, `12.5` |
| `font_family` | String | `"Arial"`, `"Helvetica"` |
| `color` | String | `"red"`, `"#ff0000"` |
| `background_color` | String | `"white"`, `"rgba(255,255,255,0.8)"` |
| `padding` | Float | `5.0`, `8.5` |

Commit message:

Rename project from Filament to Orrery
- Rename crate directories: filament* → orrery*
- Rename crates: filament → orrery, filament-core → orrery-core,
  filament-parser → orrery-parser, filament-cli → orrery-cli
- Rename CLI binary: filament → orrery
- Rename error type: FilamentError → OrreryError
- Rename file extension: .fil → .orr (45 example files)
- Update all imports, doc comments, string literals, and error codes
- Update all Markdown documentation, URLs, and config paths
- Update .gitignore and config.toml

docs/specifications/literal_values.md, after:

# Orrery Literal Values and Data Types Specification

## 1. Overview

Orrery supports two primary data types for attribute values: string literals and float literals. This specification documents the syntax, usage, and behavior of these literal value types within the Orrery language.

## 2. String Literals

String literals in Orrery are enclosed in double quotes and support Rust-style escape sequences for enhanced text representation.

### 2.1 Basic String Syntax

```orrery
"hello world"           // Basic string
"simple text"           // Alphanumeric content
""                      // Empty string
"with spaces and 123"   // Mixed content
```

### 2.2 Escape Sequences

Orrery supports the following escape sequences within string literals:

#### Standard Escape Sequences
- `\"` - Double quote
- `\\` - Backslash
- `\/` - Forward slash
- `\n` - Newline
- `\r` - Carriage return
- `\t` - Tab
- `\b` - Backspace
- `\f` - Form feed
- `\0` - Null character

#### Examples
```orrery
"quote: \"Hello World\""        // Contains quotes
"path\\to\\file"                // Windows path
"line 1\nline 2"               // Multi-line text
"tab\tdelimited\tdata"         // Tab-separated
```

### 2.3 Unicode Escape Sequences

Unicode characters can be included using the `\u{...}` syntax with 1-6 hexadecimal digits:

```orrery
"emoji: \u{1F602}"             // 😂 (Face with Tears of Joy)
"symbol: \u{00AC}"             // ¬ (Not Sign)
"arrow: \u{2192}"              // → (Rightwards Arrow)
"math: \u{221E}"               // ∞ (Infinity)
```

#### Unicode Requirements
- Must use exactly 1-6 hexadecimal digits
- Must represent a valid Unicode code point
- Surrogate range (0xD800-0xDFFF) is not allowed
- Maximum value is 0x10FFFF

### 2.4 Escaped Whitespace

Whitespace immediately following a backslash at the end of a line is consumed, allowing for multi-line string formatting:

```orrery
"This is a long string that spans \
 multiple lines but appears as one"
// Results in: "This is a long string that spans multiple lines but appears as one"
```

### 2.5 String Usage in Orrery

String literals are used for:
- **Color values**: `"red"`, `"#ff0000"`, `"rgb(255,0,0)"`
- **Font families**: `"Arial"`, `"Helvetica"`, `"Courier New"`
- **Style values**: `"solid"`, `"dashed"`, `"dotted"`, `"5,3"` (custom dash patterns)
- **Routing styles**: `"straight"`, `"curved"`, `"orthogonal"`
- **Line cap/join values**: `"butt"`, `"round"`, `"square"`, `"miter"`, `"bevel"`
- **Display names and labels**: Component and relation labels
- **Background colors**: Diagram and component background colors
- **Note content**: Text content for annotations (see [Note Syntax Specification](note_syntax.md))
- **Note alignment**: `"left"`, `"right"`, `"top"`, `"bottom"`, `"over"`

## 3. Float Literals

Float literals represent numeric values as 32-bit floating-point numbers (f32) and support multiple representation formats.

### 3.1 Standard Decimal Format

Basic decimal notation with explicit decimal point, including whole numbers:

```orrery
2.5         // Standard decimal
10.0        // Explicit decimal point
0.75        // Leading zero
123.456     // Multiple decimal places
```

### 3.2 Whole Numbers

Whole numbers without decimal points are fully supported and treated as float literals:

```orrery
1           // Equivalent to 1.0
17          // Equivalent to 17.0
42          // Equivalent to 42.0
1000        // Equivalent to 1000.0
```

Whole numbers provide a clean, readable syntax for integer-valued numeric attributes while maintaining the underlying float type system.

### 3.3 Abbreviated Decimal Formats

#### Leading Decimal Point
When the integer part is zero, it can be omitted:

```orrery
.5          // Equivalent to 0.5
.25         // Equivalent to 0.25
.125        // Equivalent to 0.125
.001        // Equivalent to 0.001
```

#### Trailing Decimal Point
When the fractional part is zero, it can be omitted but the decimal point is required:

```orrery
5.          // Equivalent to 5.0
100.        // Equivalent to 100.0
42.         // Equivalent to 42.0
```

### 3.4 Scientific Notation

Scientific notation uses `e` or `E` followed by an optional sign and exponent:

```orrery
1e5         // 100000.0 (1 × 10⁵)
2.5e-3      // 0.0025 (2.5 × 10⁻³)
1.23e+4     // 12300.0 (1.23 × 10⁴)
1E5         // 100000.0 (uppercase E)
2.5E-3      // 0.0025 (uppercase E)
6.022e23    // Avogadro's number
```

#### Scientific Notation Rules
- Exponent can be positive or negative
- The `+` sign in the exponent is optional
- Both `e` and `E` are accepted
- The mantissa (number before e/E) can use any decimal format

### 3.4 Precision and Range

Float literals are stored as IEEE 754 single-precision floating-point numbers:
- **Precision**: Approximately 7 decimal digits
- **Range**: Approximately ±3.4 × 10³⁸
- **Smallest positive**: Approximately 1.2 × 10⁻³⁸

### 3.5 Float Usage in Orrery

Float literals are used for:
- **Stroke dimensions**: `stroke=[width=2.5]`
- **Shape dimensions**: `rounded=10`
- **Text sizing**: `text=[font_size=16, padding=8.0]`
- **Positioning**: Coordinate and measurement values

#### Examples by Attribute Type
```orrery
// Shape attributes
component: Rectangle [
    stroke=[width=2.5],     // Stroke width
    rounded=10,             // Corner radius (whole number)
];

// Text attributes
label: Rectangle [
    text=[font_size=16, padding=8.5]  // Nested text attributes
];

// Stroke attributes
component: Rectangle [
    stroke=[color="blue", width=2.0, style="dashed"]  // Nested stroke attributes
];

// Relation attributes
source -> [stroke=[width=2]] target;  // Relation stroke width (whole number)
```





## 4. Text Attribute Usage and Examples

Text attributes control text appearance. Use nested syntax: `text=[attribute=value, ...]`

Text attributes are used in components, relations, and notes. For note-specific usage, see [Note Syntax Specification](note_syntax.md).

**Examples:**

```orrery
// Basic styling
type Styled = Rectangle [text=[font_size=16, color="white"]];

// With font family
type Custom = Rectangle [text=[font_family="Arial", font_size=14, color="black"]];

// With background and padding
type Highlighted = Rectangle [text=[color="red", background_color="yellow", padding=5.0]];

// Color formats: named, hex, RGB, RGBA
type ColorExamples = Rectangle [text=[color="rgba(255, 0, 0, 0.5)"]];

// Full configuration
type Full = Rectangle [
    text=[font_size=18, font_family="Helvetica", color="navy", background_color="lightblue", padding=8.0]
];

// In relations
source -> [text=[color="red", font_size=14]] target: "Label";
```

## 5. Stroke Attribute Usage and Examples

Stroke attributes control borders, lines, and outlines. Use nested syntax: `stroke=[attribute=value, ...]`

Stroke attributes are used in shapes, relations, fragments, and notes. For note-specific usage, see [Note Syntax Specification](note_syntax.md).

**Basic Styles:**

```orrery
// Solid, dashed, dotted
type Solid = Rectangle [stroke=[color="navy", width=2.0, style="solid"]];
type Dashed = Rectangle [stroke=[color="red", width=1.5, style="dashed"]];
type Dotted = Rectangle [stroke=[color="black", width=1.0, style="dotted"]];
```

**Custom Dash Patterns:**

```orrery
// Pattern: "dash,gap" or "dash,gap,dash,gap" (repeating)
type Pattern1 = Rectangle [stroke=[color="purple", width=2.0, style="5,3"]];
type Pattern2 = Rectangle [stroke=[color="green", style="10,5,2,5", line_cap="round"]];
```

**Arrows and Relations:**

```orrery
type RedArrow = Arrow [stroke=[color="red", width=2.0]];
type DashedArrow = Arrow [stroke=[style="dashed", color="blue"]];

source -> [stroke=[color="orange", width=3.0]] target;
source -> [stroke=[color="purple", style="dashed"], style="curved"] target;
```

**Fragments:**

```orrery
fragment alt "Condition" {
    [border_stroke=[color="blue", width=2.0], separator_stroke=[color="gray", style="dashed"]]
};
```

**Line Caps and Joins:**

```orrery
// Caps: "butt" (default), "round", "square"
type RoundCap = Rectangle [stroke=[width=3.0, line_cap="round"]];

// Joins: "miter" (default), "round", "bevel"
type RoundJoin = Rectangle [stroke=[width=2.0, line_join="round"]];
```

**Full Configuration:**

```orrery
type Complete = Rectangle [
    stroke=[color="darkblue", width=2.5, style="8,3,2,3", line_cap="round", line_join="round"]
];
```

**Sequence Diagrams (Lifelines):**

```orrery
diagram sequence [
    lifeline=[color="black", width=1.0, style="dashed"]
];
```

## 6. Type Safety and Usage Rules

Orrery enforces strict type safety for attribute values to prevent runtime errors and improve performance.

### 6.1 Strict Typing Rules

- **Numeric attributes** only accept float literals
- **Text attributes** only accept string literals
- **No automatic conversion** between string and numeric values
- **Compile-time validation** ensures type correctness

### 6.2 Correct Usage Examples

```orrery
// ✅ Correct: String for colors, floats for dimensions
component: Rectangle [
    fill_color="blue",      // String literal
    stroke=[width=2.5],     // Nested stroke attributes
    rounded=10,             // Float literal
    text=[font_family="Arial", color="white"]  // Nested text attributes with color
];

// ✅ Correct: Mixed attribute types
type Database = Rectangle [
    fill_color="lightblue", // String
    rounded=10,             // Float
    stroke=[width=2],       // Nested stroke attributes
    text=[color="darkblue", font_size=14]  // Text with color
];

// ✅ Correct: Text colors with various formats
type ColorfulText = Rectangle [
    fill_color="white",
    text=[
        color="red",                    // Named color
        font_size=16,                   // Float
        background_color="#ffff00",     // Hex color
        padding=5.0                     // Float
    ]
];

// ✅ Correct: Semi-transparent text color
type TransparentText = Rectangle [
    fill_color="black",
    text=[color="rgba(255, 255, 255, 0.7)", font_size=18]  // Alpha transparency
];
```

### 6.3 Incorrect Usage Examples

```orrery
// ❌ Incorrect: Using string for numeric stroke width
component: Rectangle [
    stroke=[width="2.5"]    // Error: Expected float, found string
];

// ❌ Incorrect: Using float for string attribute
component: Rectangle [
    fill_color=255.0        // Error: Expected string, found float
];

// ❌ Incorrect: Using float for text color
component: Rectangle [
    text=[color=255.0]      // Error: Expected string, found float
];

// ❌ Incorrect: Using numeric value for text color
component: Rectangle [
    text=[color=16777215]   // Error: Expected string, found float
];
```

### 6.4 Attribute Type Reference

**General Attributes:**

| Attribute | Type | Example |
|-----------|------|---------|
| `fill_color` | String | `"red"`, `"#ff0000"` |
| `rounded` | Float | `10.0`, `5.`, `10` |
| `style` | String | `"straight"`, `"curved"`, `"orthogonal"` |
| `stroke` | Stroke Attributes | See Stroke table below |
| `border_stroke` | Stroke Attributes | See Stroke table below (fragments only) |
| `separator_stroke` | Stroke Attributes | See Stroke table below (fragments only) |
| `text` | Text Attributes | See Text table below |
| `background_color` | String | `"white"`, `"#ffffff"` (notes, see [Note Syntax](note_syntax.md)) |

**Stroke Attributes** (used in `stroke`, `border_stroke`, `separator_stroke`):

| Attribute | Type | Example |
|-----------|------|---------|
| `color` | String | `"red"`, `"#ff0000"` |
| `width` | Float | `2.0`, `1.5`, `2` |
| `style` | String | `"solid"`, `"dashed"`, `"dotted"`, `"5,3"` |
| `line_cap` | String | `"butt"`, `"round"`, `"square"` |
| `line_join` | String | `"miter"`, `"round"`, `"bevel"` |

**Text Attributes** (used in `text`):

| Attribute | Type | Example |
|-----------|------|---------|
| `font_size` | Float | `16`, `12.5` |
| `font_family` | String | `"Arial"`, `"Helvetica"` |
| `color` | String | `"red"`, `"#ff0000"` |
| `background_color` | String | `"white"`, `"rgba(255,255,255,0.8)"` |
| `padding` | Float | `5.0`, `8.5` |
